# About the JATIC program
The Joint AI Test Infrastructure Capability (JATIC) program develops software products for AI Test & Evaluation (T&E) and AI Assurance.

!!! type "Program Mission"

    Develop software to accelerate and enable AI model test and evaluation for testers across the Department of Defense (DoD) enterprise, including DoD programs, research laboratories, industry partners, and academia in order to provide insight on the performance, effectiveness, robustness, and safety of the DoD's AI-enabled systems.


We aim to provide products that address the following key gaps:

- Multi-dimensional testing of AI models, such as robustness, resiliency, explainability, and competence
- Reproducibility and traceability of AI experiments
- Interoperability, security, and maturity of AI T&E software
- Ease-of-use for AI DoD testers

The program is managed by the Assessment & Assurance Division of the [DoD Chief Digital and Artificial Intelligence Office (CDAO)](https://www.ai.mil/). It is funded from FY23-FY29.


## What is the Reference Implemenation (RI)?

The Reference Implementation (RI) is series of UI applications which makes testing and evaluation of models and datasets straightforward for individuals who are not familar with the JATIC tools and do not have a coding background. 

## Who are the target users of the Reference Implementation?

* **Low code users** - Our users are typically interested in testing and evaluation, likely have a good understanding of the domain, but may or may not be Data Scientists. They interact with the RI through the UI applications we provide. 
* **No prior knowledge of JATIC tools** - Our users may or may not be familiar with the individual JATIC tools. They are familiar with their datasets and models and simply want to perform testing without needing to learn a new tool (or suite of tools). 
* **Have their own models and datasets** - Our users are expected to come with arbitrary models and datasets. As such, a long-term goal of the RI is to support arbitrary models and datasets. 


## What is the role of the Reference Implemenation Team?

The RI Team, through development of the RI, are first users of many JATIC tools as such, the team is well-positioned to perform a few critical roles across the JATIC program:
* **High code users of JATIC tools** - The team is in a position to evaluate the software engineering practices within JATIC tools, assess usability, and identify bugs. 
* **Assess MAITE protocols** - Through the development of common JATIC workflows and wrappers, the RI team will be assessing the MAITE protocols. This may include ensuring sufficient coverage for all usecases (suggesting development of new features as needed), assessing usability of existing protocols, ensuring that the protocols are sufficient for generating wrappers which can be used across all the JATIC tools. Lastly, the wrappers generated by the RI team will likely be transitioned into MAITE once mature. 
* **Ensure and demonstrate interoperability between JATIC tools** - The individual teams are focused on documentation for their specific tool, while the RI team aims to demonstrate how the tools can be used together. 
* **Develop evergreen demonstrations** - Through the development of UI applications, combined with CI practices, the RI team will as a result be maintaining a set of applications which can be used for demonstrations. 
* **Centralize demo development** - The RI team will take ownership of the development of code necessary to support demonstrations given by the JATIC program, rather than relying on a distributed development across multiple teams. This will remove extraneous development responsibilities from JATIC product teams, and will make it simpler to apply a proper development cycle to the development of demos and the RI.
